Publish a blog post - deploy-python-pipeline-on-flink-runner (#31655)
apache/beam: website/www/site/content/en/blog/deploy-python-pipeline-on-flink-runner.md

In this post, we develop an [Apache Beam](https://beam.apache.org/) pipeline using the [Python SDK](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/sdks/python/) and deploy it on an [Apache Flink](https://flink.apache.org/) cluster via the [Apache Flink Runner](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/runners/flink/). We first deploy an [Apache Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/) cluster on a [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/) cluster as the pipeline uses Kafka topics for its data source and sink. Then, we develop the pipeline as a Python package and add the package to a custom Docker image so that Python user code can be executed externally. For deployment, we create a Flink session cluster via the [Flink Kubernetes Operator](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-kubernetes-operator-docs-main/), and deploy the pipeline using a Kubernetes job. Finally, we check the output of the application by sending messages to the input Kafka topic using a Python producer application.

{{< toc >}}

<!--more-->

## Resources to run a Python Beam pipeline on Flink

> We develop an Apache Beam pipeline using the Python SDK and deploy it on an [Apache Flink](https://flink.apache.org/) cluster via the [Apache Flink Runner](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/runners/flink/). While the Flink cluster is created by the [Flink Kubernetes Operator](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-kubernetes-operator-docs-main/), we need two components (**Job Service** and [**SDK Harness**](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/runtime/sdk-harness-config/)) to run the pipeline on the *Flink Runner*. Roughly speaking, the former converts details about a Python pipeline into a format that the Flink runner can understand while the Python user code is executed by the latter. Note that the Python SDK provides convenience wrappers to manage those components, and it can be utilized by specifying *FlinkRunner* in the pipeline option (i.e. `--runner=FlinkRunner`). We let the *Job Service* be managed automatically while relying on our own *SDK Harness* as a sidecar container for simplicity. Also, we need the **Java IO Expansion Service** as an extra because the pipeline uses [Apache Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/) topics for its data source and sink, and the *Kafka Connector I/O* is developed in Java. Simply put, the expansion service is used to serialise data for the Java SDK.

Reviewer: maybe we could link https://beam.apache.org/documentation/programming-guide/#multi-language-pipelines here for the expansion service, which is often challenging for users to learn how to use.

Author: Could you please create a commit suggestion?

```Dockerfile
# beam/Dockerfile-python-harness
FROM apache/beam_python3.10_sdk:2.56.0

ARG BEAM_VERSION
ENV BEAM_VERSION=${BEAM_VERSION:-2.56.0}
ENV REPO_BASE_URL=https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/apache/beam

RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y default-jdk

RUN mkdir -p /opt/apache/beam/jars \
  && wget ${REPO_BASE_URL}/beam-sdks-java-io-expansion-service/${BEAM_VERSION}/beam-sdks-java-io-expansion-service-${BEAM_VERSION}.jar \
          --progress=bar:force:noscroll -O /opt/apache/beam/jars/beam-sdks-java-io-expansion-service.jar

COPY word_len /app/word_len
COPY word_count /app/word_count

ENV PYTHONPATH="$PYTHONPATH:/app"
```

As the custom images should be accessible in the minikube cluster, we should point the terminal's docker-cli to the minikube's Docker engine. Then, the images can be built as usual using `docker build`.

{{< highlight bash >}}
eval $(minikube docker-env)
docker build -t beam-python-example:1.16 beam/
docker build -t beam-python-harness:2.56.0 -f beam/Dockerfile-python-harness beam/
{{< /highlight >}}

> ## Deploy Stream Processing App

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Deploy the stream processing app
```

> The Beam pipeline is executed on a [Flink session cluster](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-kubernetes-operator-docs-main/docs/custom-resource/overview/#session-cluster-deployments), which is deployed via the Flink Kubernetes Operator. Note that the [application deployment mode](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-kubernetes-operator-docs-main/docs/custom-resource/overview/#application-deployments) where the Beam pipeline is deployed as a Flink job doesn't seem to work (or I don't understand how to do so yet) due to either job submission timeout error or failing to upload the job artifact. After the pipeline is deployed, we check the output of the application by sending text messages to the input Kafka topic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Beam pipeline is executed on a [Flink session cluster](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-kubernetes-operator-docs-main/docs/custom-resource/overview/#session-cluster-deployments), which is deployed by the Flink Kubernetes Operator. The [application deployment mode](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-kubernetes-operator-docs-main/docs/custom-resource/overview/#application-deployments) where the Beam pipeline is deployed as a Flink job doesn't seem to work (or I don't understand how to do so yet) due to either a job submission timeout error or a failure to upload the job artifact. After the pipeline is deployed, we check the output of the application by sending text messages to the input Kafka topic.
```

Reviewer 2: For the notes about things that aren't working, it might be better to put them in a Note callout rather than embedded in the text.

> ### Deploy Flink Kubernetes Operator

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Deploy the Flink Kubernetes Operator
```

> We first need to install the [certificate manager](https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager) on the minikube cluster to enable adding the webhook component. Then, the operator can be installed using a Helm chart, and the version 1.8.0 is installed in the post.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, to enable adding the webhook component, install the [certificate manager](https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager) on the minikube cluster. Then, use a Helm chart to install the operator. The version 1.8.0 is installed in the post.
```

{{< highlight bash >}}
kubectl create -f https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager/releases/download/v1.8.2/cert-manager.yaml
helm repo add flink-operator-repo https://downloads.apache.org/flink/flink-kubernetes-operator-1.8.0/
helm install flink-kubernetes-operator flink-operator-repo/flink-kubernetes-operator
# NAME: flink-kubernetes-operator
# LAST DEPLOYED: Mon Jun 03 21:37:45 2024
# NAMESPACE: default
# STATUS: deployed
# REVISION: 1
# TEST SUITE: None

helm list
# NAME                            NAMESPACE       REVISION        UPDATED                                         STATUS          CHART                           APP VERSION
# flink-kubernetes-operator       default         1               2024-06-03 21:37:45.579302452 +1000 AEST        deployed        flink-kubernetes-operator-1.8.0 1.8.0
{{< /highlight >}}

> ### Deploy Beam Pipeline

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Deploy the Beam pipeline
```

> First, we create a Flink session cluster. In the manifest file, we configure common properties such as the Docker image, Flink version, cluster configuration and pod template. These properties are applied to the Flink job manager and task manager, and only the replica and resource are specified additionally to them. Note that we add a sidecar container to the task manager and this *SDK Harness* container is configured to execute Python user code - see the job configuration below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, create a Flink session cluster. In the manifest file, configure common properties, such as the Docker image, Flink version, cluster configuration, and pod template. These properties are applied to the Flink job manager and task manager. In addition, specify the replica and resource. We add a sidecar container to the task manager, and this *SDK harness* container is configured to execute Python user code - see the following job configuration.
```

```yaml
# beam/word_len_cluster.yml
apiVersion: flink.apache.org/v1beta1
kind: FlinkDeployment
metadata:
  name: word-len-cluster
spec:
  image: beam-python-example:1.16
  imagePullPolicy: Never
  flinkVersion: v1_16
  flinkConfiguration:
    taskmanager.numberOfTaskSlots: "10"
  serviceAccount: flink
  podTemplate:
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: flink-main-container
          volumeMounts:
            - mountPath: /opt/flink/log
              name: flink-logs
      volumes:
        - name: flink-logs
          emptyDir: {}
  jobManager:
    resource:
      memory: "2048Mi"
      cpu: 2
  taskManager:
    replicas: 1
    resource:
      memory: "2048Mi"
      cpu: 2
    podTemplate:
      spec:
        containers:
          - name: python-harness
            image: beam-python-harness:2.56.0
            args: ["-worker_pool"]
            ports:
              - containerPort: 50000
                name: harness-port
```

> The pipeline is deployed using a Kubernetes job, and the custom *SDK Harness* image is used to execute the pipeline as a module. The first two arguments are application specific arguments and the rest are arguments for pipeline options. The pipeline arguments are self-explanatory, or you can check available options in the [pipeline options source](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/master/sdks/python/apache_beam/options/pipeline_options.py) and [Flink Runner document](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/runners/flink/). Note that, to execute Python user code in the sidecar container, we set the environment type to *EXTERNAL* and environment config to *localhost:50000*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The pipeline is deployed using a Kubernetes job, and the custom *SDK harness* image is used to execute the pipeline as a module. The first two arguments are application-specific. The rest of the arguments are for pipeline options. For more information about the pipeline arguments, see the [pipeline options source](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/master/sdks/python/apache_beam/options/pipeline_options.py) and [Flink Runner document](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/runners/flink/). To execute Python user code in the sidecar container, we set the environment type to *EXTERNAL* and the environment config to *localhost:50000*.
```

```yaml
# beam/word_len_job.yml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
metadata:
  name: word-len-job
spec:
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: word-len-job
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: beam-word-len-job
          image: beam-python-harness:2.56.0
          command: ["python"]
          args:
            - "-m"
            - "word_len.run"
            - "--deploy"
            - "--bootstrap_servers=demo-cluster-kafka-bootstrap:9092"
            - "--runner=FlinkRunner"
            - "--flink_master=word-len-cluster-rest:8081"
            - "--job_name=beam-word-len"
            - "--streaming"
            - "--parallelism=3"
            - "--flink_submit_uber_jar"
            - "--environment_type=EXTERNAL"
            - "--environment_config=localhost:50000"
            - "--checkpointing_interval=10000"
      restartPolicy: Never
```

> The session cluster and job can be deployed using `kubectl create`. The session cluster is created by the *FlinkDeployment* custom resource, and it manages the job manager deployment, task manager pod and associated services. When we check the log of the job's pod, we see that it starts the *Job Service* after downloading the Jar file, uploads the pipeline artifact, submit the pipeline as a Flink job and continuously monitors the job status.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Deploy the session cluster and job using the `kubectl create` command. The session cluster is created by the *FlinkDeployment* custom resource, and it manages the job manager deployment, task manager pod, and associated services. When we check the log of the job's pod, we see that it does the following tasks:

- starts the *Job Service* after downloading the Jar file
- uploads the pipeline artifact
- submits the pipeline as a Flink job
- and continuously monitors the job status
```

# INFO:apache_beam.runners.portability.portable_runner:Job state changed to STOPPED
# DEBUG:urllib3.connectionpool:Starting new HTTP connection (1): word-len-cluster-rest:8081
# DEBUG:urllib3.connectionpool:Starting new HTTP connection (1): word-len-cluster-rest:8081
# DEBUG:urllib3.connectionpool:http://word-len-cluster-rest:8081 "GET /v1/jobs/a403cb2f92fecee65b8fd7cc8ac6e68a/execution-result HTTP/1.1" 200 31
# DEBUG:urllib3.connectionpool:http://word-len-cluster-rest:8081 "GET /v1/jobs/a403cb2f92fecee65b8fd7cc8ac6e68a/execution-result HTTP/1.1" 200 31
# INFO:apache_beam.runners.portability.portable_runner:Job state changed to RUNNING
# DEBUG:urllib3.connectionpool:Starting new HTTP connection (1): word-len-cluster-rest:8081
# DEBUG:urllib3.connectionpool:Starting new HTTP connection (1): word-len-cluster-rest:8081
# DEBUG:urllib3.connectionpool:http://word-len-cluster-rest:8081 "GET /v1/jobs/a403cb2f92fecee65b8fd7cc8ac6e68a/execution-result HTTP/1.1" 200 31
# DEBUG:urllib3.connectionpool:http://word-len-cluster-rest:8081 "GET /v1/jobs/a403cb2f92fecee65b8fd7cc8ac6e68a/execution-result HTTP/1.1" 200 31
# ...
{{< /highlight >}}

> After deployment is complete, we can see the following Flink session cluster and job related resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the deployment completes, we can see the following Flink session cluster and job related resources.
```

kubectl get all -l app=word-len-cluster
# NAME                                    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
# pod/word-len-cluster-7c98f6f868-d4hbx   1/1     Running   0          5m32s
# pod/word-len-cluster-taskmanager-1-1    2/2     Running   0          4m3s

# NAME                            TYPE        CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)             AGE
# service/word-len-cluster        ClusterIP   None           <none>        6123/TCP,6124/TCP   5m32s
# service/word-len-cluster-rest   ClusterIP   10.104.23.28   <none>        8081/TCP            5m32s

# NAME                               READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
# deployment.apps/word-len-cluster   1/1     1            1           5m32s

# NAME                                          DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
# replicaset.apps/word-len-cluster-7c98f6f868   1         1         1       5m32s

kubectl get all -l app=word-len-job
# NAME                     READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
# pod/word-len-job-24r6q   1/1     Running   0          5m24s

# NAME                     COMPLETIONS   DURATION   AGE
# job.batch/word-len-job   0/1           5m24s      5m24s
{{< /highlight >}}

> The Flink web UI can be accessed using `kubectl port-forward` on port 8081. In the job graph, we see there are two tasks where the first task is performed until adding word elements into a fixed time window and the second one is up to sending the average word length records to the output topic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can access the Flink web UI using the `kubectl port-forward` command on port 8081. The job graph shows two tasks. The first task is performed until adding word elements into a fixed time window. The second task sends the average word length records to the output topic.
```

{{< highlight bash >}}
kubectl port-forward svc/flink-word-len-rest 8081
{{< /highlight >}}

<img class="center-block"
src="/images/blog/deploy-python-pipeline-on-flink-runner/flink-ui.png"
alt="Flink UI">

> The *Kafka I/O* automatically creates a topic if it doesn't exist, and we can see the input topic is created on *kafka-ui*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The *Kafka I/O* automatically creates a topic if it doesn't exist, and we can see the input topic is created on `kafka-ui`.
```

<img class="center-block"
src="/images/blog/deploy-python-pipeline-on-flink-runner/kafka-topics-1.png"
alt="Kafka Input Topic">

> ### Kafka Producer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Kafka producer
```

> A simple Python Kafka producer is created to check the output of the application. The producer app sends random text from the [Faker](https://faker.readthedocs.io/en/master/) package to the input Kafka topic every 1 second by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A simple Python Kafka producer is created to check the output of the application. By default, the producer app sends random text from the [Faker](https://faker.readthedocs.io/en/master/) package to the input Kafka topic every one second.
```

        Returns a KafkaProducer instance
        """
        return KafkaProducer(
            bootstrap_servers=self.bootstrap_servers,
            value_serializer=lambda v: v.encode("utf-8"),
        )

    def send_to_kafka(self, text: str, timestamp_ms: int = None):
        """
        Sends text to a Kafka topic.
        """
        try:
            args = {"topic": self.topic_name, "value": text}
            if timestamp_ms is not None:
                args = {**args, **{"timestamp_ms": timestamp_ms}}
            self.kafka_producer.send(**args)
            self.kafka_producer.flush()
        except Exception as e:
            raise RuntimeError("fails to send a message") from e

if __name__ == "__main__":
    producer = TextProducer(
        os.getenv("BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS", "localhost:29092"),
        os.getenv("TOPIC_NAME", "input-topic"),
    )
    fake = Faker()

    num_events = 0
    while True:
        num_events += 1
        text = fake.text()
        producer.send_to_kafka(text)
        if num_events % 5 == 0:
            print(f"<<<<<{num_events} text sent... current>>>>\n{text}")
        time.sleep(int(os.getenv("DELAY_SECONDS", "1")))
{{< /highlight >}}

> The Kafka bootstrap server can be exposed on port 29092 using `kubectl port-forward` and the producer app can be started by executing the Python script.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Expose the Kafka bootstrap server on port 29092 using the `kubectl port-forward` command. Execute the Python script to start the producer app.
```

{{< highlight bash >}}
kubectl port-forward svc/demo-cluster-kafka-external-bootstrap 29092

python kafka/client/producer.py
{{< /highlight >}}

> We can see the output topic (*output-topic-beam*) is created on *kafka-ui*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can see the output topic (`output-topic-beam`) is created on `kafka-ui`.
```

<img class="center-block"
src="/images/blog/deploy-python-pipeline-on-flink-runner/kafka-topics-2.png"
alt="Kafka Output Topic">

> Also, we can check the output messages are created as expected in the *Topics* tab.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Also, we can check that the output messages are created as expected in the **Topics** tab.
```

<img class="center-block"
src="/images/blog/deploy-python-pipeline-on-flink-runner/output-topic-messages.png"
alt="Kafka Output Topic Messages">

> # Delete Resources

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Delete resources
```

> The Kubernetes resources and minikube cluster can be deleted as shown below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Delete the Kubernetes resources and the minikube cluster using the following steps.
```

{{< highlight bash >}}

> ## delete flink operator and related resoruces

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Delete the Flink Operator and related resources.
```

kubectl delete -f beam/word_len_cluster.yml
kubectl delete -f beam/word_len_job.yml
helm uninstall flink-kubernetes-operator
helm repo remove flink-operator-repo
kubectl delete -f https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager/releases/download/v1.8.2/cert-manager.yaml

> ## delete kafka cluster and related resources

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Delete the Kafka cluster and related resources.
```

STRIMZI_VERSION="0.39.0"
kubectl delete -f kafka/manifests/kafka-cluster.yaml
kubectl delete -f kafka/manifests/kafka-ui.yaml
kubectl delete -f kafka/manifests/strimzi-cluster-operator-$STRIMZI_VERSION.yaml

> ## delete minikube

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Delete the minikube.
```

---
title: "Deploy Python pipelines on Kubernetes using the Flink runner"
date: "2024-06-20T13:56:15+10:00"
categories:
  - blog
authors:
  - "jkim"
---
<!--
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Deploy Python pipelines on Kubernetes using the Flink runner

The [Apache Flink Kubernetes Operator](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-kubernetes-operator-docs-main/docs/concepts/overview/) acts as a control plane to manage the complete deployment lifecycle of Apache Flink applications. With the operator, we can simplify the deployment and management of Apache Beam pipelines.

> In this post, we develop an [Apache Beam](https://beam.apache.org/) pipeline using the [Python SDK](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/sdks/python/) and deploy it on an [Apache Flink](https://flink.apache.org/) cluster by using the [Apache Flink runner](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/runners/flink/). We first deploy an [Apache Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/) cluster on a [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/) cluster, because the pipeline uses Kafka topics for its data source and sink. Then, we develop the pipeline as a Python package and add the package to a custom Docker image so that Python user code can be executed externally. For deployment, we create a Flink session cluster using the [Flink Kubernetes Operator](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-kubernetes-operator-docs-main/), and deploy the pipeline using a Kubernetes job. Finally, we check the output of the application by sending messages to the input Kafka topic using a Python producer application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this post, we develop an [Apache Beam](https://beam.apache.org/) pipeline using the [Python SDK](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/sdks/python/) and deploy it on an [Apache Flink](https://flink.apache.org/) cluster by using the [Apache Flink runner](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/runners/flink/). We first deploy an [Apache Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/) cluster on a [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/) cluster, because the pipeline uses Kafka topics for its data source and sink. Then, we develop the pipeline as a Python package and add the package to a custom Docker image so that Python user code can be executed externally. For deployment, we create a Flink session cluster using the Flink Kubernetes Operator, and deploy the pipeline using a Kubernetes job. Finally, we check the output of the application by sending messages to the input Kafka topic using a Python producer application.
```

{{< toc >}}

<!--more-->

## Resources to run a Python Beam pipeline on Flink

> We develop an Apache Beam pipeline using the Python SDK and deploy it on an Apache Flink cluster using the Apache Flink runner. While the Flink cluster is created by the Flink Kubernetes Operator, we need two components to run the pipeline on the *Flink runner*: the **job service** and the [**SDK harness**](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/runtime/sdk-harness-config/). Roughly speaking, the job service converts details about a Python pipeline into a format that the Flink runner can understand. The SDK harness executes the Python user code. The Python SDK provides convenience wrappers to manage those components, and it can be utilized by specifying *FlinkRunner* in the pipeline option, for example, `--runner=FlinkRunner`. The *job service* is managed automatically. We rely on our own *SDK harness* as a sidecar container for simplicity. Also, we need the **Java IO Expansion Service**, because the pipeline uses Apache Kafka topics for its data source and sink, and the *Kafka Connector I/O* is developed in Java. Simply put, the expansion service is used to serialize data for the Java SDK.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We develop an Apache Beam pipeline using the Python SDK and deploy it on an Apache Flink cluster using the Apache Flink runner. Although the Flink cluster is created by the Flink Kubernetes Operator, we need two components to run the pipeline on the *Flink runner*: the **job service** and the [**SDK harness**](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/runtime/sdk-harness-config/). Roughly speaking, the job service converts details about a Python pipeline into a format that the Flink runner can understand. The SDK harness executes the Python user code. The Python SDK provides convenience wrappers to manage those components, and you can use it by specifying *FlinkRunner* in the pipeline option, for example, `--runner=FlinkRunner`. The *job service* is managed automatically. We rely on our own *SDK harness* as a sidecar container for simplicity. Also, we need the **Java IO Expansion Service**, because the pipeline uses Apache Kafka topics for its data source and sink, and the Kafka Connector I/O is developed in Java. Simply put, the expansion service is used to serialize data for the Java SDK.
```

## Set up the Kafka cluster

> An Apache Kafka cluster is deployed using the [Strimzi Operator](https://strimzi.io/) on a [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/) cluster. We install Strimzi version 0.39.0 and Kubernetes version 1.25.3. After the [minikube CLI](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/) and [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) are installed, you can create a minikube cluster by specifying the desired Kubernetes version. You can find the source code for this blog post can be found in the [**GitHub repository**](https://github.com/jaehyeon-kim/beam-demos/tree/master/beam-deploy).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An Apache Kafka cluster is deployed using the [Strimzi Operator](https://strimzi.io/) on a minikube cluster. We install Strimzi version 0.39.0 and Kubernetes version 1.25.3. After the [minikube CLI](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/) and [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) are installed, you can create a minikube cluster by specifying the Kubernetes version. You can find the source code for this blog post in the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/jaehyeon-kim/beam-demos/tree/master/beam-deploy).
```

{{< highlight bash >}}
minikube start --cpus='max' --memory=20480 \
  --addons=metrics-server --kubernetes-version=v1.25.3
{{< /highlight >}}

### Deploy the Strimzi operator

> The [**GitHub repository**](https://github.com/jaehyeon-kim/beam-demos/tree/master/beam-deploy) keeps manifest files that you can use to deploy the *Strimzi operator*, Kafka cluster, and Kafka management application. To download a different version of the operator, you can download the relevant manifest file by specifying the desired version. By default, the manifest file assumes that the resources are deployed in the *myproject* namespace. However, because we deploy them in the *default* namespace, we need to change the resource namespace. We change the resource namespace using [sed](https://www.gnu.org/software/sed/manual/sed.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The GitHub repository keeps manifest files that you can use to deploy the Strimzi operator, Kafka cluster, and Kafka management application. To download a different version of the operator, download the relevant manifest file by specifying the version. By default, the manifest file assumes that the resources are deployed in the *myproject* namespace. However, because we deploy them in the *default* namespace, we need to change the resource namespace. We change the resource namespace using [sed](https://www.gnu.org/software/sed/manual/sed.html).
```

curl -L -o kafka/manifests/strimzi-cluster-operator-$STRIMZI_VERSION.yaml \
  ${DOWNLOAD_URL}

# Update the namespace from myproject to default.
sed -i 's/namespace: .*/namespace: default/' kafka/manifests/strimzi-cluster-operator-$STRIMZI_VERSION.yaml

## Deploy the Strimzi cluster operator.
kubectl create -f kafka/manifests/strimzi-cluster-operator-$STRIMZI_VERSION.yaml
{{< /highlight >}}

Verify that the Strimzi Operator runs as a Kubernetes [deployment](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/).

{{< highlight bash >}}
kubectl get deploy,rs,po
# NAME                                       READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
# deployment.apps/strimzi-cluster-operator   1/1     1            1           2m50s

# NAME                                                 DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
# replicaset.apps/strimzi-cluster-operator-8d6d4795c   1         1         1       2m50s

# NAME                                           READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
# pod/strimzi-cluster-operator-8d6d4795c-94t8c   1/1     Running   0          2m49s
{{< /highlight >}}

### Deploy the Kafka cluster

> We deploy a Kafka cluster with a single broker and Zookeeper node. It has both internal and external listeners on ports 9092 and 29092, respectively. The external listener is used to access the Kafka cluster outside the minikube cluster. Also, the cluster is configured to allow automatic creation of topics (*auto.create.topics.enable: "true"*), and the default number of partitions is set to 3 (*num.partitions: 3*).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We deploy a Kafka cluster with a single broker and Zookeeper node. It has both internal and external listeners on ports 9092 and 29092, respectively. The external listener is used to access the Kafka cluster outside the minikube cluster. Also, the cluster is configured to allow automatic creation of topics (`auto.create.topics.enable: "true"`), and the default number of partitions is set to 3 (`num.partitions: 3`).
```

        - id: 0
          type: persistent-claim
          size: 20Gi
          deleteClaim: true
    config:
      offsets.topic.replication.factor: 1
      transaction.state.log.replication.factor: 1
      transaction.state.log.min.isr: 1
      default.replication.factor: 1
      min.insync.replicas: 1
      inter.broker.protocol.version: "3.5"
      auto.create.topics.enable: "true"
      num.partitions: 3
  zookeeper:
    replicas: 1
    resources:
      requests:
        memory: 256Mi
        cpu: 250m
      limits:
        memory: 512Mi
        cpu: 500m
    storage:
      type: persistent-claim
      size: 10Gi
      deleteClaim: true
```

Deploy he Kafka cluster using the `kubectl create` command.

{{< highlight bash >}}
kubectl create -f kafka/manifests/kafka-cluster.yaml
{{< /highlight >}}

The Kafka and Zookeeper nodes are managed by the [*StrimziPodSet*](https://strimzi.io/docs/operators/latest/configuring.html#type-StrimziPodSet-reference) custom resource. It also creates multiple Kubernetes [services](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/). In this series, we use the following services:

- communication within the Kubernetes cluster

>   - *demo-cluster-kafka-bootstrap* - to access Kafka brokers from the client and management apps

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - `demo-cluster-kafka-bootstrap` - to access Kafka brokers from the client and management apps
```

>   - *demo-cluster-zookeeper-client* - to access Zookeeper node from the management app

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - `demo-cluster-zookeeper-client` - to access Zookeeper node from the management app
```

- communication from the host

>   - *demo-cluster-kafka-external-bootstrap* - to access Kafka brokers from the producer app

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - `demo-cluster-kafka-external-bootstrap` - to access Kafka brokers from the producer app
```

# NAME               TYPE        CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)    AGE
# service/kafka-ui   ClusterIP   10.109.14.33   <none>        8080/TCP   36s

# NAME                       READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
# deployment.apps/kafka-ui   1/1     1            1           35s

# NAME                                  DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
# replicaset.apps/kafka-ui-65dbbc98dc   1         1         1       35s
{{< /highlight >}}

We use `kubectl port-forward` to connect to the `kafka-ui` server running in the minikube cluster on port 8080.

{{< highlight bash >}}
kubectl port-forward svc/kafka-ui 8080
{{< /highlight >}}

<img class="center-block"
src="/images/blog/deploy-python-pipeline-on-flink-runner/kafka-ui.png"
alt="Kafka UI">

## Develop a stream processing app

We develop an Apache Beam pipeline as a Python package and add it to a custom Docker image, which is used to execute Python user code (*SDK harness*). We also build another custom Docker image, which adds the Java SDK of Apache Beam to the official Flink base image. This image is used to deploy a Flink cluster and to execute Java user code of the *Kafka Connector I/O*.

### Beam pipeline code

> The application first reads text messages from an input Kafka topic. Next, it extracts words by splitting the messages (*ReadWordsFromKafka*). Then, the elements (words) are added to a fixed time window of 5 seconds, and their average length is calculated (*CalculateAvgWordLen*). Finally, we include the window start and end timestamps, and send the updated element to an output Kafka topic (*WriteWordLenToKafka*).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The application first reads text messages from an input Kafka topic. Next, it extracts words by splitting the messages (`ReadWordsFromKafka`). Then, the elements (words) are added to a fixed time window of 5 seconds, and their average length is calculated (`CalculateAvgWordLen`). Finally, we include the window start and end timestamps, and send the updated element to an output Kafka topic (`WriteWordLenToKafka`).
```

> We create a custom *Java IO Expansion Service* (`get_expansion_service`) and add it to the *ReadFromKafka* and *WriteToKafka* transforms of the *Kafka Connector I/O*. Although the *Kafka I/O* provides a function to create that service, it did not work for me (or I do not understand how to make use of it yet). Instead, I created a custom service, as illustrated in [Building Big Data Pipelines with Apache Beam by Jan Lukavský](https://www.packtpub.com/product/building-big-data-pipelines-with-apache-beam/9781800564930). The expansion service Jar file (*beam-sdks-java-io-expansion-service.jar*) must exist in the Kubernetes [*job*](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/) that executes the pipeline, while the Java SDK (*/opt/apache/beam/boot*) must exist in the runner worker.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We create a custom *Java IO Expansion Service* (`get_expansion_service`) and add it to the `ReadFromKafka` and `WriteToKafka` transforms of the Kafka Connector I/O. Although the Kafka I/O provides a function to create that service, it did not work for me (or I do not understand how to make use of it yet). Instead, I created a custom service, as illustrated in [Building Big Data Pipelines with Apache Beam by Jan Lukavský](https://www.packtpub.com/product/building-big-data-pipelines-with-apache-beam/9781800564930). The expansion service Jar file (`beam-sdks-java-io-expansion-service.jar`) must exist in the Kubernetes [*job*](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/) that executes the pipeline, while the Java SDK (`/opt/apache/beam/boot`) must exist in the runner worker.
```

    # workflow rely on global context. That is, a module imported at the module level.
    pipeline_options = PipelineOptions(pipeline_args)
    pipeline_options.view_as(SetupOptions).save_main_session = save_main_session

    expansion_service = None
    if known_args.deploy is True:
        expansion_service = get_expansion_service()

    with beam.Pipeline(options=pipeline_options) as p:
        (
            p
            | "ReadWordsFromKafka"
            >> ReadWordsFromKafka(
                bootstrap_servers=known_args.bootstrap,
                topics=[known_args.input],
                group_id=known_args.group,
                expansion_service=expansion_service,
            )
            | "CalculateAvgWordLen" >> CalculateAvgWordLen()
            | "WriteWordLenToKafka"
            >> WriteWordLenToKafka(
                bootstrap_servers=known_args.bootstrap,
                topic=known_args.output,
                expansion_service=expansion_service,
            )
        )

        logging.getLogger().setLevel(logging.DEBUG)
        logging.info("Building pipeline ...")

if __name__ == "__main__":
    run()
{{< /highlight >}}

> The pipeline script is added to a Python package under a folder named `word_len`. A simple module named `run` is created, because it is executed as a module, for example, `python -m ...`. When I ran the pipeline as a script, I encountered an error. This packaging method is for demonstration only. For a recommended way of packaging a pipeline, see [Managing Python Pipeline Dependencies](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/sdks/python-pipeline-dependencies/) .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The pipeline script is added to a Python package under a folder named `word_len`. A simple module named `run` is created, because it is executed as a module, for example, `python -m ...`. When I ran the pipeline as a script, I encountered an error. This packaging method is for demonstration only. For a recommended way of packaging a pipeline, see [Managing Python Pipeline Dependencies](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/sdks/python-pipeline-dependencies/).
```

{{< highlight py >}}
# beam/word_len/run.py
from . import *

run()
{{< /highlight >}}

Overall, the pipeline package uses the following structure.

{{< highlight bash >}}
tree beam/word_len

beam/word_len
├── __init__.py
├── run.py
└── word_len.py
{{< /highlight >}}

### Build Docker images

> As discussed previously, we build a custom Docker image (*beam-python-example:1.16*) and use it to deploy a Flink cluster and to run the Java user code of the *Kafka Connector I/O*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As discussed previously, we build a custom Docker image (*beam-python-example:1.16*) and use it to deploy a Flink cluster and to run the Java user code of the Kafka Connector I/O.
```

```Dockerfile
# beam/Dockerfile
FROM flink:1.16

COPY --from=apache/beam_java11_sdk:2.56.0 /opt/apache/beam/ /opt/apache/beam/
```

> We also build a custom Docker image (*beam-python-harness:2.56.0*) to run Python user code (*SDK harness*). From the Python SDK Docker image, it first installs the Java Development Kit (JDK) and downloads the *Java IO Expansion Service* Jar file. Then, the Beam pipeline packages are copied to the */app* folder. The app folder is added to the *PYTHONPATH* environment variable, which makes the packages searchable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We also build a custom Docker image (*beam-python-harness:2.56.0*) to run Python user code (*SDK harness*). From the Python SDK Docker image, it first installs the Java Development Kit (JDK) and downloads the *Java IO Expansion Service* Jar file. Then, the Beam pipeline packages are copied to the `/app` folder. The app folder is added to the `PYTHONPATH` environment variable, which makes the packages searchable.
```

{{< highlight bash >}}
eval $(minikube docker-env)
docker build -t beam-python-example:1.16 beam/
docker build -t beam-python-harness:2.56.0 -f beam/Dockerfile-python-harness beam/
{{< /highlight >}}

## Deploy the stream processing app

The Beam pipeline is executed on a [Flink session cluster](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-kubernetes-operator-docs-main/docs/custom-resource/overview/#session-cluster-deployments), which is deployed by the Flink Kubernetes Operator. The [application deployment mode](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-kubernetes-operator-docs-main/docs/custom-resource/overview/#application-deployments) where the Beam pipeline is deployed as a Flink job doesn't seem to work (or I don't understand how to do so yet) due to either a job submission timeout error or a failure to upload the job artifact. After the pipeline is deployed, we check the output of the application by sending text messages to the input Kafka topic.

### Deploy the Flink Kubernetes Operator

> First, to enable adding the webhook component, install the [certificate manager](https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager) on the minikube cluster. Then, use a Helm chart to install the operator. The version 1.8.0 is installed in the post.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, to make it possible to add the webhook component, install the [certificate manager](https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager) on the minikube cluster. Then, use a Helm chart to install the operator. Version 1.8.0 is installed in the post.
```

```yaml
# beam/word_len_cluster.yml
apiVersion: flink.apache.org/v1beta1
kind: FlinkDeployment
metadata:
  name: word-len-cluster
spec:
  image: beam-python-example:1.16
  imagePullPolicy: Never
  flinkVersion: v1_16
  flinkConfiguration:
    taskmanager.numberOfTaskSlots: "10"
  serviceAccount: flink
  podTemplate:
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: flink-main-container
          volumeMounts:
            - mountPath: /opt/flink/log
              name: flink-logs
      volumes:
        - name: flink-logs
          emptyDir: {}
  jobManager:
    resource:
      memory: "2048Mi"
      cpu: 2
  taskManager:
    replicas: 1
    resource:
      memory: "2048Mi"
      cpu: 2
    podTemplate:
      spec:
        containers:
          - name: python-harness
            image: beam-python-harness:2.56.0
            args: ["-worker_pool"]
            ports:
              - containerPort: 50000
                name: harness-port
```

> The pipeline is deployed using a Kubernetes job, and the custom *SDK harness* image is used to execute the pipeline as a module. The first two arguments are application-specific. The rest of the arguments are for pipeline options. For more information about the pipeline arguments, see the [pipeline options source](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/master/sdks/python/apache_beam/options/pipeline_options.py) and [Flink Runner document](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/runners/flink/). To execute Python user code in the sidecar container, we set the environment type to *EXTERNAL* and the environment config to *localhost:50000*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The pipeline is deployed using a Kubernetes job, and the custom *SDK harness* image is used to execute the pipeline as a module. The first two arguments are application-specific. The rest of the arguments are for pipeline options. For more information about the pipeline arguments, see the [pipeline options source](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/master/sdks/python/apache_beam/options/pipeline_options.py) and [Flink Runner document](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/runners/flink/). To execute Python user code in the sidecar container, we set the environment type to `EXTERNAL` and the environment config to `localhost:50000`.
```

      labels:
        app: word-len-job
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: beam-word-len-job
          image: beam-python-harness:2.56.0
          command: ["python"]
          args:
            - "-m"
            - "word_len.run"
            - "--deploy"
            - "--bootstrap_servers=demo-cluster-kafka-bootstrap:9092"
            - "--runner=FlinkRunner"
            - "--flink_master=word-len-cluster-rest:8081"
            - "--job_name=beam-word-len"
            - "--streaming"
            - "--parallelism=3"
            - "--flink_submit_uber_jar"
            - "--environment_type=EXTERNAL"
            - "--environment_config=localhost:50000"
            - "--checkpointing_interval=10000"
      restartPolicy: Never
```

Deploy the session cluster and job using the `kubectl create` command. The session cluster is created by the *FlinkDeployment* custom resource, and it manages the job manager deployment, task manager pod, and associated services. When we check the log of the job's pod, we see that it does the following tasks:

- starts the *Job Service* after downloading the Jar file
- uploads the pipeline artifact
- submits the pipeline as a Flink job

> - and continuously monitors the job status

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- continuously monitors the job status
```

kubectl get all -l app=word-len-cluster
# NAME                                    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
# pod/word-len-cluster-7c98f6f868-d4hbx   1/1     Running   0          5m32s
# pod/word-len-cluster-taskmanager-1-1    2/2     Running   0          4m3s

# NAME                            TYPE        CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)             AGE
# service/word-len-cluster        ClusterIP   None           <none>        6123/TCP,6124/TCP   5m32s
# service/word-len-cluster-rest   ClusterIP   10.104.23.28   <none>        8081/TCP            5m32s

# NAME                               READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
# deployment.apps/word-len-cluster   1/1     1            1           5m32s

# NAME                                          DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
# replicaset.apps/word-len-cluster-7c98f6f868   1         1         1       5m32s

kubectl get all -l app=word-len-job
# NAME                     READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
# pod/word-len-job-24r6q   1/1     Running   0          5m24s

# NAME                     COMPLETIONS   DURATION   AGE
# job.batch/word-len-job   0/1           5m24s      5m24s
{{< /highlight >}}

> You can access the Flink web UI using the `kubectl port-forward` command on port 8081. The job graph shows two tasks. The first task is performed until adding word elements into a fixed time window. The second task sends the average word length records to the output topic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can access the Flink web UI using the `kubectl port-forward` command on port 8081. The job graph shows two tasks. The first task adds word elements into a fixed time window. The second task sends the average word length records to the output topic.
```

{{< highlight bash >}}
kubectl port-forward svc/flink-word-len-rest 8081
{{< /highlight >}}

<img class="center-block"
src="/images/blog/deploy-python-pipeline-on-flink-runner/flink-ui.png"
alt="Flink UI">

> The *Kafka I/O* automatically creates a topic if it doesn't exist, and we can see the input topic is created on `kafka-ui`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Kafka I/O automatically creates a topic if it doesn't exist, and we can see the input topic is created on `kafka-ui`.
```
